Filezoo manual


Filezoo is a file manager that displays the filesystem hierarchy as a zoomable list of files and directories.


Command line:

  filezoo.exe [options] [directory]

    Starts Filezoo in [directory] with the given [options].

  Options
    --panel      Start in panel mode.
    --quit       Quit after drawing the first frame.
    --panel-bg   Set the panel background to the given X color.


User interface:


Breadcrumb bar: ("/home/username/")

  Click on a directory name to navigate there.


Sort bar: (Sort Type Name Size Date)

  Click on a sort label to sort the directory entries by that property.
  Directories are always before files.
  There is no need to have a reversed sort as both ends of the list take an
  equal time to access.

  Type sorts alphabetically by the file extension.
  Name sorts alphabetically by the file name.
  Size sorts largest first.
  Date sorts newest first.


Size bar: (Size Flat Size Date Entries Total)

  Click on a size label to set the relative sizes of the directory entries
  according to that property.

  Flat makes the entries equally sized.
  Size makes large files appear larger.
  Date makes newer entries appear larger.
  Entries makes directories with several entries appear larger.
  Total makes large directories appear larger.


Address bar: [                       ][Downloads][Home]

  Click on the Home-button to navigate to the home directory.
  Click on the Downloads-button to navigate to the $HOME/downloads directory.

  Type a filename to the address bar and press enter to open the file.
  Enter a directory name to navigate to that directory.
  Type a shell command to execute that command.
    Prefix the command with a ! to explicitly execute it in case there is
    a file having the same name as the command.
  Type a website address to open it in a new Firefox tab.
  Type a ? followed by a search query to Google in a new Firefox tab.


Mouse:

  Left mouse button
    Click
      Unreadable item to zoom it to readable size
      Directory to navigate in it
      File to open it
    Ctrl-click to select files and directories
    Shift-click to select a range of files in a single directory
    Alt-click to clear selection
    Drag to pan
      Release mouse button when panning to throw
      Press mouse button to stop throw
    Ctrl-drag to drag and drop
      Moves by default
      Ctrl-shift-drag to copy
      Ctrl-alt-drag to ask

  Right mouse button
    Click
      Show context menu for the clicked item

  Middle mouse button / wheel button
    Drag up and down to pan
    Drag left and right to zoom

  Mouse wheel
    Scroll forwards to zoom in
    Scroll backwards to zoom out


Keyboard:

  Esc
    Clear selection
    Close panel window if nothing selected

  Home
    Navigate to home directory

  Backspace
    Navigate to parent directory

  Delete
    Move selection to trash

  Ctrl-c
    Copy selection to clipboard
    Use to copy selected files

  Ctrl-x
    Cut selection to clipboard
    Use to move selected files

  Ctrl-v
    Paste clipboard contents to current directory
    If clipboard doesn't contain files, asks whether to create a new file
    from the clipboard contents.

